# Java SDET - Week 2 
## Contents
<ol>
<li><p><a href="https://github.com/hibjam/JavaProject#first-java-project" 
title="First Java Project">First Java Project</a></p>
<li><p><a href="https://github.com/hibjam/JavaProject/blob/main/readme.md#creating-a-bubblesort" 
title="Creating a BubbleSort">Creating a BubbleSort</a></p>
<li><p><a href="https://github.com/hibjam/JavaProject/blob/main/readme.md#palindrome-checker" 
title="First Java Project">Palindrome Checker</a></p>
<li><p><a href="https://github.com/hibjam/JavaProject/blob/main/readme.md#fibonacci-sequence" 
title="First Java Project">Fibonacci Sequence</a></p></li>
</ol>

## First Java Project
#### What time is it?
<hr />
<p>The aim of this Java project was to create a method that would take a 
number as a single parameter ranging from 0 to 24 and return a welcome
message String based on what number was inputted. The method assumes 
that the number inputted represents a time on a 24h hour clock i.e. 15 = 3pm therefore 
would return good afternoon.
</p>
<hr/>
<p>The project could return 5 different messages depending on the number entered:
</p>
<ul>
<li>0 to <5 would return: "Go to Bed!"</li>
<li>>=5 to <12 would return: "Good Morning!" </li>
<li>>=12 to <=18 would return: "Good Afternoon!" </li>
<li>>18 to <=24 would return: "Good Evening!" </li>
<li>Any number outside this range would return a message 
saying it was not a valid time! </li>
</ul>
<hr/>

<p>The second part of this project required us to build a simple testing 
framework in order to check that the method would return the expected message 
when the correct parameter was entered. </p>
<p>Using Junit annotations such as @Test to show it is a test method and
@DisplayName to give the test a name, we created separate methods for each
possible greeting and used an assertion (assertEquals) to ensure that the
output of our App method was the correct one. The following dependencies were required 
to be added to the pom.xml file in a maven project in order to conduct testing.
These depencies will be used to test all projects described in this read.me file</p>

<pre>
&lt;dependencies>
    &lt;depenncy&gt;
      &lt;groupId>org.junit.jupiter&lt;groupId>
      &lt;artifactId>junit-jupiter-api&lt;artifactId>
      &lt;version>5.8.2&lt;version>
    &lt;/dependency>
&lt;dependencies>
</pre> 
<hr>

## Creating a BubbleSort
<p> The aim of this project was to create a simple sorting algortithm that is able to take 
an array of numbers as an input and sort them in order of smallest to largest. This was accomplished 
via the use of two for loops which would loop through the array, then a second 
for loop which would loop through the array starting at the following index. These two values 
would then be compared, and if the first value was larger it would be swapped with 
the subsequent value. 
</p>
<hr>

## Palindrome Checker
<p> The aim of this project was to retrieve the longest palindrome(s) from a given String. 
It was done by first splitting the string into a String[] array and then each word was reversed and checked 
to see if it met the criteria of being a palindrome (>3 letters etc.) The longest palindrome in this list of words was then 
added to an ArrayList<String>. This ArrayList had the ability to store multiple palindromes of the same length 
if that was the case inside the String. It also accounted for things such as fullstops at the end of sentences, in case the longest 
palindrome was at the end of the String.
</p>
<hr>

## Fibonacci Sequence 
<p> This project involved the creation of two methods - one which took an integer input as a parameter and returned 
the number in the Fibonacci sequence that corresponded with that int. The second method, instead of just returning the number 
that corresponded to that point in the sequence, returned the entire sequence up to that point. This was done by looping through
every number generated by the previous method to get to that number in sequence and adding each of these to an empty ArrayList.
</p>

